 So I'll go ahead and also introduce Mr. John Bodley is here with us from Airbnb. He's a committed and PMC member for the Super Set project as well and he's going to be helping to kind of answer some of these questions and help moderate things a little bit. So thank you, John, for joining us today. And I will go ahead and kick off a little bit of a demo. That's what we're all here for. So I will share my screen and show you what I started making. I had a little fun and used chat GPT to create a data set as you can probably tell by my background. I enjoy playing bass. And so I went ahead and made a bit of a fake guitar store sales dashboard. Had GPT kind of create a bunch of columns, including a few time columns like sold on, shipped on, received on, you know, make and model and price of each of these instruments. And then we got this fun little dashboard where you can see the, you can see it, you know, basically manufacturer broken down by model and that's sure why we're not seeing more models here. Actually, let me check this out. Okay, that's what it should look like right there. It's always something we need to do a live demo. Okay, there it is. Pretend you didn't see anything. But what we want to get into here is demoing filters. This is native filters 101. So let's just start jumping right into it and we'll create a few little filters. But before I do that, I do want to share some essential links with you. And let's see, hold on a second. Let me drag this out. First thing first, if you want to join us on Slack, that would be great. We have a very vibrant Slack community. And if you have questions, you can ask things there. I'm pasting it in the chat right now, the invitation link. And there is a channel you can join us on called meetup dashboard filters. So in case we don't get into your, of your questions today, we can follow up a sink over there. I also wanted to give a link to an older video that's available on YouTube about native filters. It's from a couple of years ago, so some things are outdated, but you know, additional references never hurt. I also wanted to give you a link to the documentation that's available on presets stock. For those who don't know, preset is a managed hosted version of Superset. It's got some different bells and whistles compared to regular Superset. But the documentation for filters holds true for both. Okay, going back to the actual dashboard, let's just dive in and we will create a couple of filters. So one would be this value filter and that pulls a value for many columns. So in our case, you might want to do manufacturer. And this is the data set that we're pulling from that I created. And then you pick the column. So manufacturer, pretty straightforward here. Just to get a simple example going first. So if you pick, say, Fender and apply all of the charts in the dashboard remaps. So you can see these are just the Fender guitars that were sold. And you can select multiple if you want to get into all of that. There's a bunch of other options you can add onto these filters, like giving it a default value. So if you have maybe a large data set and you want to kind of pre-slice it for your visitors for optimization purposes, you can have Fender pre-selected so that when somebody comes to the dash, that's already applied. And then they can just change their choice if you want. Then we can do the same thing. But you can add additional filters. Let's add one more and we're going to do model. Model, there you are. Except we're going to do something a little different this time. We're going to make this a dependent filter. And what this does is it actually maps the model filter, sorry, the model filter to the manufacturer filters. And I'll show you what that does exactly here. So if we pick Fender, we've got 21 options of guitars that are made by Fender here in this list. And you can apply that to the dashboard and it works splendidly. But if you change this to include some other company, then it actually filters the options of your dependent filter. So that can kind of narrow the field of a filter that might have, you know, 10,000 options in it or something ridiculous like that. So then obviously we have a lot of temporal data in here. So I want to go ahead and jump right into creating a new filter that's a time range. And I'll just generically call it time range because we're not specialized quite yet. And for those who haven't messed with it, there's this time and date picker overlay that gets a little intricate. That's kind of because it does everything. It's hard to make a UI surface that does everything and also keep it simple. But for expediency sake, I'll cover a couple of the options here. One is I like to use last and you could say last week. And that's one very easy way to create a simple filter and you should see a chart like this. Simplify quite a bit. And if I get rid of that filter, let's get a little more data in there. There we go. You can also do some fun stuff. People are always like, how do I very easily pick an arbitrary date in here? And if you go to advanced, this actually lets you kind of type just about anything. So you could say, I think you could do this. Listen, find out last Tuesday to this Monday. You can do something like that. Or you can do 7123 to 78823. Okay, so hopefully that should work. But that's kind of a quick way to very easily enter dates in this. So that works. Now, another thing you can add that's interesting is that date range applies to the default temporal column in your data set. Actually, I'll show you where you can set that. Oh, pardon, I need to know you need to do that from the chart edit mode. I won't go that far astray right now. But in any case, what we can do actually is create another filter that's of the type time column. And that allows you to map what that time range is mapped to. So since I've got three time columns again, I've got order dawn, ship dawn, received dawn. You can pick which one of those you want the filter to apply to. And that works like that. So if I actually change this to ship dawn, you should get slightly different numbers. And in fact, a couple of these charts like this one don't use that column. So you don't see the data at all. Now what we can do actually is get into scoping. So if anybody has questions about any of the types of filters you can add here, there are a bunch and there's a lot of new wants to them. I showed you the dependent filters, but you can sort values. There's a lot of little knobs you can tweak on in here. But one of the most important parts of creating these filters is the fact that you can scope them to individual charts in your dashboard. So one thing you can do here is take this time column and time range control and scope them to particular charts. So maybe I only want these to apply to my transit time and fulfillment time charts. So let's do that. Okay, I should have set a default value on this. That would have saved me some time. So now if I say shipped on, yeah, that should change the value for just those two charts. And now while I'm here showing you scoping, this is probably an opportune time to show you about filter indicators. Up here next to each chart that has a filter applied to it, you get these handy dandy little filter indicators that tell you exactly which filter is being applied. And in many cases, it'll show you which ones are inapplicable. So if you do pick a filter on a column that doesn't exist in a particular chart or a data set that a chart is built off of, then you'll also get additional rows here. And these these I'll show the applied filters, but you can see the ones that are inapplicable. So then along with that, well, we'll get into cross filters, but there's other types of filters that are shown here too. So these things are really good to look at, especially if you're just kind of consuming a dashboard. And you want to know what are these numbers I'm looking at. These were a very important addition because you need to understand as a consumer of this information that you're not necessarily looking at the biggest number. This is not my complete sales of the store over the last several months or whatever. This actually is just fender guitars. So you need to know immediately that that's filtered. So keep an eye on those. Now it's also interesting with temporal filters. This comes up quite a bit that you can add additional time range filters. And if you do that, if you if you if you don't scope them, they'll override each other. If you have two time range filters or two time column filters and don't set any scoping like they're scoped to the entire dashboard, the second one will merely override the first. So that's kind of a goofy user experience. But I'll go ahead and create time range two here. And then I'm going to scope that to everything, but those two charts that I scoped the first one to. And I'll go ahead and do the same thing with the time column control. And now when I go ahead and set a filter, the first ones should only affect these two charts. And then the other ones should affect basically everything else in the dashboard. So there you go. Now in regards to those filter icons that we were talking about, it's also worth mentioning that these filters in the left here are not the only kind of filters you can add to a dashboard. There's also cross filters. Now not every chart type in superset supports this, but the majority of them do what we call tier one charts, which includes all of the charts that are each arts based and a handful of other ones like tables and things that are kind of you know, table stakes. So to speak for creating a dashboard. And what this allows you to do is if you click that wedge, then you see in this little icon that this has emitted a filter for fender. And it's filtered everything else in the dashboard. And if I filter that even further, it filters all the other dashboards accordingly. And you can see these filters right here and applied cross filters. So you know that those are affecting a chart you're looking at. And you can also see them over here in the left on the nav bar. And you can clear them either by clicking the thing you click to emit the filter in the first place, or you can actually click the little x here in the list of emitted cross filters. And that just undoes it. So those are important to know about. And in your deployment, if you have this cross filter feature flag enabled, you can turn the feature on and off by clicking the little gear here in the filter bar. And you can kill it or enable it for any given dashboard. And you can also do the same thing with scoping like I was showing you with the temporal filters, but cross filters can be revoked from any particular filter as well. So if you have like a big number chart for your dashboard that's, you know, total annual sales or something like that. And you don't want people fiddling with your dashboard to affect that number. You can you can remove the cross scoping cross filtering scoping from that as well. Um, let's see. Another thing people often ask about this is how do I kind of share a filtered version of a dashboard with my coworkers or friends or whatever the case may be. And let's go ahead and I'll show you one way to do that. Why is my apply button not lighting up? Refresh. Okay, there we go. So I've got a couple of filters on here. Super cool. Now I will go over here. And if you go to the share area, you can actually share a permalink. And this is a generated state of the dashboard, including filters that get stored in a row in the database. And you can copy this link. And if you open up a new tab, you can just open it there. And whoever gets this link, assuming they have access to that dashboard and that data and everything, then they'll see it in exactly that state you were looking at it in. It's also worth mentioning that that I'm not sure if this is a bug or not to be honest, but in playing with this yesterday, I realized that the cross filters are not part of that state. So you know, set up actual dashboard filters if you're trying to use that workflow. One other, there's a couple other little bells and whistles in this left hand filter bar. I'd like to show you actually one I haven't messed with much here is the fact that you can rearrange all of this stuff. Actually, I think this is kind of an essential range, but arrangement. But if you wanted to, you could drag and drop those. There's also this fun little option of adding a divider. So in my case, a couple of those filters I added were for tracking fulfillment of orders. So I'll go ahead and add a header and a description. Okay. And then I think I'd want to put it right about there. If I remember correctly, I might have gotten time range one and time range two confused, but the point being you can drag and drop it. And when you create it, you get this little text area here. And if you wind up in a situation where you have a whole bunch of filters in your dashboard, this is a great way to give some context to groupings of those and saying that some of them have a particular purpose or a particular scope or anything like that. Let's see. Oh, another key thing I've forgotten to add here is if you happen to use Superset in an embedded context, this left hand bar can often take up a fair amount of real state. So by popular demand, we've created this horizontal filter bar version. And that just takes everything you've already seen here and makes it go horizontal. And all the things work in exactly the same way. The only real caveat here is that you've got a different real estate problem, right? If you've got 20 filters, then you don't have room to go horizontally all the way across. So any additional filters pop up in this little overflow bar and they all still work exactly the way you would expect them to. So you can still go nuts with filters even if they're in the horizontal layout. But in an embedded context, that saves a lot of real estate things these here typically. Or some people just prefer it this way. Whatever floats your boat. Let's see. There's a couple of other related things that are probably worth talking about. For instance, in in dashboards, you also have some recent filter features that were added for drilling to detail and drilling by which many people think of as drill down. If I go ahead and clear out a couple of these filters, then we can do this. If you drill to detail, you'll see all the underlying data of the table that builds the chart. And that's super cool. Another way you can do what thing you can do here is drill down or drill by is what we actually call it because you can pick your column. It's not a hierarchical set of columns. And if I pick a dritty detail by Gibson, then that actually applies a filter. So you can see only the Gibson stuff. And that's effectively the same if you were to go over here and say Gibson and then do the regular drill to detail. All that same stuff is filtered out. So it's just kind of a different shortcut to get to that end. And you can also do some other fun drilling operations. If you drill to detail by Gibson here, you can do that. Let's see. We drill by is what I'm looking for. So you can actually, this is not a good example. I should have worked on this better. But in this case, you're drilling by order number. And you see just the one order number. But in something where there's more of a hierarchy than our two little layers here, you could say if you're looking at cars, you might have, you know, manufacturer and type of vehicle and subtypes from there. So you might have a Ford and then you pick electric or gas. And then from there, you can pick truck or SUV or whatever. And you can pick something like, you know, electric vehicle and drill by that. And then you would be able to look at all of the models that fall within that category as a table in a model like I was just showing you. Long story short, the filters apply to those overlays as well. If you are using embedding, like I mentioned, also for the horizontal menu bar filter option, it's also worth noting that there's a little bit of configuration for the embedded solution that you can automatically hide or show this left pane via configuration of the embedded iframe. So some people want to encourage use of filter. Some people want to discourage it. So that's your kind of means to control that when you're embedding a dashboard into your application. And it's also worth mentioning that there is, there are a couple of other deprecated features that I would like to officially discourage the use of at this point. For those who are maintaining their own instances of superset, one of them is a filter feature flag called filter sets or dashboard native filter sets or something like that, I believe the name of the flag is and that feature has not been maintained for a couple of years and was kind of in a beta state and now it's effectively in a broken state and has been officially marked as deprecated and will be removed in superset 4.0. So I would not recommend using that. The other one that's been kind of a long time coming is the filter box component that was kind of the legacy version of dashboard filtering and the way that worked was you were given a extra chart type over here that was a filter box and you would drag it into your dashboard layout and then configure all your filters and configure your scoping from there. But that thing has aged significantly and is also on the path toward deprecation. It is as a superset 3.0 officially deprecated and will be officially removed in 4.0. So if you are using those it's a good time to start migrating away and in fact I might hand the mic over to John for a second to explain a little bit about how that migration process works since you've been close to it if you don't mind. Well I guess Evan as well there's a few questions about some of the Q&A but maybe when I sort of go back through some of those and highlight some of those questions. Absolutely. Just for context here as well like you know per Evan's questions and actually some questions came up about this like can we place the filters like in situ I guess I'd call them. This is sort of like legacy workflows that I guess are strongly discouraged in per Evan's comment are being removed and the reason being is sort of when superset sort of grow organically this is just the easiest way of doing it right just to let's make a chart around this and there's a lot of actually issues with them as well because you had defaults at the chart level then you embedded it into the dashboard and you had all these different scopes and so you had sort of this challenges sort of dealing with very complex scoping it was very difficult to define dependencies and the likes. So there are some scripts around so these are checked in they will be released in $3 as well but there is a CLI command that allows you to upgrade and downgrade your dashboard and the way that they work a little bit is it provides it's kind of like a other database migration we run but you can roll back. So the value of this is if you want to say upgrade a single dashboard or upgrade your PySuite of dashboard you can and you can also roll back so we sort of preserve some metadata in the dashboards that allows us to do this. One thing we sort of the way we kind of did this in terms of like there's a few challenges right first of all we removed the filter boxes and just replaced them with a markdown element that just links to the filter box right so if on your dashboard you'll actually see this exact the same a placeholder where your filter box used to reside but that is now the markdown so we preserve the layout of the dashboard which is great so there's no actual change in the actual topology of your dashboard and then we also migrate all these filter settings into the left-hand panel and the great thing is you can actually go back and then sort of see what the filter was before and whether it's to preserve that same behavior. We've actually run the iWalkerDB we've run this we had to migrate you know thousands of filter boxcharts this is a fairly successful migration there are challenges right because I think where you define a dashboard if you design a dashboard within situ filters that may look very differently than how you design it with all the filters for residing in the left-hand panel you may actually acknowledge that you've got lots of duplicate filters so there's actually work that needs to be done by the dashboard producers to actually sort of clean this up and I guess what I'm saying is designing a dashboard within situ filters may look very differently than how you design it with this new native filter configuration but yeah so it's pretty much the simple to your live script you can run it you can kind of run the upgrade and then let it soak in your installation for a period of time and then once everything's good you can kind of run a final cleanup command that'll go through and actually delete all those filter boxcharts that are associated with your dashboards it will actually remove all the temporary metadata in your dashboards as well so it should be fairly clean exercise I think that the trick you're not the trick but the you know you should communicate this so you're users as well there's a lot of things around you know preparing them for this making more aware of what's coming up and maybe putting this in the staging environment so they can see what their dashboards will look like post migration but yeah that's something that that various institutions will have to deal with in terms of columns and the likes thanks for that and yeah I do see there are a bunch of questions and some of them got answered so thank you John for handling those as well a couple all answer live one said somebody somebody said exporting and importing again the dashboard with cross filters does not preserve the scopes I assume you mean the scopes of the cross filters and I think both the the scoping and the values selected for cross filters are typically deemed kind of an in situ consumer experience rather than dashboard author experience this is my interpretation of this in fact this would be an interesting slack thread to start on that that channel I mentioned that's a meetup dashboard filters I think it's called on slack if you need the slack link again let me know but I'd actually like to rope in some more people on that discussion and see which things were really a design decision and which things I'm making a bold assumption on by saying that but I think yeah cross filters are kind of for you they're personal they're not really part of the exported thing that you'd want to share for somebody else to consume then we've got another question about let's see where it was oh yeah when we do clear all in the filter column the default selected option also gets clear why is that and I think this is two things it's it's a simplification that is based on a design decision so if you have a filter that you want to have a default value on and then there's the clear all button to clear all of the selected values I think this again this is a bit of a suspicion about a design choice so feel free to start a thread and we can wrote more people into this conversation but most people when they say clear all we'll want to actually clear all values and go back to the full breadth of the data and see everything if you want to provide people a choice of that then we'd have to add probably an extra control to the filter definition itself that's like a little checkbox saying you know clear all leaves the default choice remaining or even goofier would have be having kind of a clear all and clear all but default button which is just kind of a real estate and simplicity problem so I think clear all actually clearing all is just kind of assumed to be a default behavior but it's also worth noting that if you do clear all you still have to hit apply so maybe hitting clear all and then reapplying the baseline filter is not too much of an ask but there's probably ways to improve this that we can consider for a design improvement and if you want to talk about that then typically either a slack thread or an idea's thread on get up discussions or a good way to kind of get some people talking about that let's see our filters able to be used recursively I'm not quite sure what that means if you want to clarify a little bit the dependent filters are kind of I think what you're asking about where you can say you can have kind of almost hierarchical filters so you could filter by a country and by state and by city and by neighborhood or whatever so you're kind of narrowing the path of choices you go along if you mean recursively like having a filter that depends on itself in some way I'm not sure what the use case would be but I'd be interested to hear that looks like John's type you can answer yeah yes hopefully he's got something feel free to talk John if you want I mean I think we haven't said was correct like we do do higher filters and they're quite useful as well there's actually a lot of other stuff as well and the filters with like sitting defaults and pre filters and the sort of conditional filtering as well so like there's you know there's a lot more configuration logic that can reside there which I think answers a lot of questions that was asked previously as well so yeah there's a lot more to that sort of filter control panel that even showed yeah someone's asking if there's any way to enable their disabled filters directly on the dashboard by the user and that it depends on the user's permissions there's there's a lot of permissioning that goes into all of this but the answer is essentially yes you can configure it so that dashboard viewers are able to add their own filters it doesn't have to be related to the owner or author of the dashboard and I don't know off the top of my mind exactly all the granular permissions that that takes so again that would be a fantastic slack thread if you want to give me some time to look up those granular details and get back to you um let's see there's a few questions that don't actually retain necessarily to dashboard filtering so forgive me I'm not going to go into side missions but if you want to hit me up on slack directly I'd be happy to kind of put you in the right direction to the proper channel little person or answer whatever I can do let's see one of these was sounds like it was kind of contextual while I was speaking and sorry I didn't see it as I was rambling but it was something would need to be done in the filter options is there a way to do it in the dashboard by the user I'm not sure to what you were referring if you want to resubmit the question and clarify that could help um how to add multiple values for big numbers chart I'm not exactly sure quite what that means like if you wanted display multiple numbers I would just use two big number charts if you want to add multiple filter values that are scoped to a big number chart that's no problem whatsoever in the example I was doing you could have a big number chart that's displaying total sales and you could apply a filter for fender and a filter for Gibson and a filter for Ivan as you could select multiple and that that would apply to the singular big number chart let's see if you see any that are answerable john by all means jump on in oh okay somebody's asking would a filter work on two charts using two different data sets and having the same column but different data type I'm not sure I want to bet the farm on this but I'm 97.5% confident that it's all based on this series name because it goes into a wear clause essentially when you apply a filter it's like where you know this column equals some value or greater than's a value or whatever um so it's all yeah it's based on series names with those two different data sets happen to have the same column name I think the filter would apply to both equally even if they're different data types potentially um the data type question is an interesting wrinkle I would think it would work that way but I'm not 100% sure try it and find out and let me know see is there any chance of adding the multiple values for the big numbers chart so the big number charts can be reduced yes again let me just go over to the uh dashboard here and illustrate that point if I'm understanding you correctly so here we've got total sales $10,000 for some range of time and if I select fender it goes down to 1599 if I add Gibson it goes up to 7,000 so if that's what you mean by adding multiple values to affect a big number than the answer is yes you can absolutely do that let's see oh somebody's asking do you have time to go over ginger filters um I don't think we do and I'm I'm really not prepared to do a demo on that that's that's certainly worth doing um it's kind of a related but deeper topic this being you know dashboard filters 101 we're trying to get this simpler but yeah we should totally do a 102 and get into the ginger filter thing there are a couple of really great videos on YouTube that go into this from prior webinars if you want to google those or remind me on the Slack channel and I can absolutely dig up those links on your behalf and then yeah I'll try to get that on the calendar see is there a way to have a filter select uh hide or show a chart no uh basically what happens is if you apply a filter you could filter away the data to where the display of it is empty but you can't actually make the chart disappear completely um but interestingly it seems like an increasing number of people have kind of been asking for this to have sort of a dynamic dashboard where a chart can be hidden or shown based on filters so maybe something like if you selected a time column in this case maybe all of the charts that don't have that time column kind of disappear because they're not contextually relevant I think it's an interesting feature idea I don't know how deep the rabbit hole goes on um implementing that but that's another one where it would be great to post a get up discussion ideas thread and just see if it resonates with other people and see if you can come to a kind of a design decision around that that would be a big enough change that would probably require a sip or a superset improvement proposal um to make it a little more official and get consensus around it but it's it's not crazy talk um let's see is it possible to hide the cross filter enable option using roles I don't know I don't know um if not I think that would be an interesting permission to add and that might not be a huge PR if someone needs that and it doesn't exist I'm gonna have to do a little digging to answer that one officially uh how can you add color to a particular row in the dashboard layout not in the table row so if you mean like actually styling the dashboard like the layout so a row of charts can have a background or a font treatment or whatever else um there is another blog post that I will attempt to link you to why is my browser acting goofy here uh there it is I'll drop this in the chat this goes into several use cases like that so um this will allow you not only to customize the row but actually customize official individual charts there's a lot of different tactics to it and caveats and different like frigility warnings so yeah check out that article I hope it helps um let's see can we create a you filter using a key value pair like a select label but uh oh internally apply a key value so not that I'm aware of I kind of I kind of get what you're talking about um so you know I might select in in our example a model of a guitar by name but actually pass the filter value for like a skew or you know a uPC something like that um this question was asked and that was similar questions asked the only thing I can think of is you could have a table viz right so it's not actually in the filters specific but if you wanted to say filter only given column and then you know obviously it's a key value pair type table right um that's one way of doing it it might not be the not as visual presentation but um that's one way you could sort of filter out yeah uh that is an interesting question or another interesting feature edition um again I would I would just kind of propose that on slack and on get up because it's I could see a lot of use cases around that I think it's just one of those ones that the community hasn't spoken terribly loudly about um you know squeaky wheels get grease so by all means propose away I mean I think it's by the way I think it's worth pointing out as well like this is not complete right I think there's a lot of work we can still do to improve native filters um even um demo the divider which is fine for some context but when you start getting numerous um starting lots of tabs lots lots of filters um these things don't really work that great and we should really have filter groups right so that's probably a feature that we want to add in and so at some stage and so um I think there's still a lot of room for polish on all the stuff so with cross filters too right there's like different filter configurations the way that scopes to define just slightly different as well so I think this is a step forward from where we were previously I don't think it's the end state and um I think we're always looking for improvements as well yeah absolutely and you know to that end um this being open source software any of you here are able to contribute anything that you see fit to help improve the product um as long as it's something sensible and we can get you know a reasonable level of consensus around it but for example in those dividers I was playing with them last night and I was curious like does it support markdown so somebody could add a little link or a bold word in those descriptions and the answers no it doesn't but it seems like it wouldn't be too huge of a PR to let it support markdown or the uh the little thing in the top left where you click the plus button and you select filter or divider I was uh thinking that that's kind of a weird UI pattern that doesn't exist in other places and supersets so why don't we make that one of these buttons with the little drop down whole split button and uh it started toying with that last night I didn't finish but it's an easy improvement somebody could make in a handful of hours so um if you have ideas like that of how to make this product better don't just propose that and ask for them but you're by all means welcome to join the party and contribute and some of us that our contributors can certainly help review them or help you test them or kind of unblock you and whatever technical means are needed let's see I think I answered that one okay uh it happens that more demanding queries of data sets beyond a filter items executed even four times at the same time how do we prevent that I think correct me if I'm misinterpreting your question but it's that uh chart queries are not kind of deduplicated so if you have four charts and you apply a filter and the filter applies to those four charts then those four charts make their query again um that is true that's just kind of how superset works you need to do a lot of uh optimization uh at the at the the database layer and there are some caching optimizations you can make the other feature that's relevant to that question that we're not talking about today is global async queries it's another feature flag you can turn on that adds a layer of retic caching to cache query results which can go a bit of a ways I'm not exactly sure how far in terms of kind of query deduplication and caching results in case people are turning a filter on and off and on and off and the database gets hit with the same query over and over it can uh destress that a little bit but that's kind of a beta feature in this global async queries thing so actually while I'd be excited to see more people turn that on and hear about how it affects these performance issues it does uh come with kind of a bit of a beta tag caveat and tor. Um by the way I sign out to that there is um if you are trying to query a large data set let's hypothetically say it's got you know millions of records of the likes or the dimensional value um the cardinality is high you can do async async query um querying so rather than fetching try to fetch the top one thousand results which it does you can have dynamic search on the like so if you were sort of searching for like um and i'm a guitar but it's not great but if you're searching for a city say in the US um you know you set a type being like s a or something like that then we could either we could do a backing query it would actually go and query the data from that show underlying data set so um there are ways to sort of deal with scale in terms of the underlying cardinality of your data so all that is kind of configurable in the filter box I don't know as well even I don't know if you sort of touch on all those sort of filter settings and even some of the pre-filters as well I don't know if that's any you want to touch on a little bit more or plan to discuss uh the filter sets uh or no just the just the filter just the various sort of like um filter settings that exist in the oh yeah sure there's there are a few actual deeper things let me just uh reshare my screen happened to actually have this open so um if you are looking at something like a value filter there's a bunch of check boxes I kind of glossed over some of this so apologies if you wanted to get into the nitty gritty but um you can make it so that a filter is required and this may actually go a long way toward um uh somebody else's concern when you clear all uh this would kind of not let you uh process the query without that filter so you can make it that they're it's required to have a value um also these values are um um um they're dynamic right you're doing a database look up to get these so you can uh sort them you can search them uh you can turn off select multiple but there was one where you can uh you can search some of the values of what uh uh what was you were thinking of specifically on john i'm trying to remember where this is i know there's more oh pre-filter this is this is the one you're talking about um there's sorting so if you want it to sort by uh manufacturer or something in alphabetical order you can do that and I don't know why it's um oh that's sorting by metric it reminds me i'm fumbling here yeah that's good like for example if you want to say um i think that's true hypothetically if you were looking at say cities right and you wanted to type search facilities you could search by population so you could kind of control your the way in which those um those come okay so this one i guess i'm trying to think of a good example here we've got um you know the manufacturer filter but maybe you could filter manufacturers that have a price that's uh you know less than some certain amount um i don't know you could you could type in an arbitrary value here so this would only show manufacturers in the list that have a guitar of the cost less than eleven ninety nine um yeah so just uh just to sort of highlight up point about the pre filters they're quite they actually don't affect the actual dashboard but they affect how the filters work right so i think it's kind of a it's a little meta in that regards but this is really helpful for example if say um your data sets are really large right so you don't actually want to query years and years of data to find out what the distinct number of um guitar manufacturers are because they're static in nature so you may only want to look at a very small time range to find that value and that'll make your filters more efficient um furthermore there your data may the encoding of your data may have changed right so hypothetically let's say a manufacturer renamed themselves or a new manufacturer or a manufacturer went out of business or whatever it may be a sort of date you could exclude that stuff so if the encoding of your data changed um you can kind of add these pre filters and the way they really work is they materialize as sequels and wear clause so when you are doing like tell me the distinct manufacturers right that's what that's fundamentally what it's trying to find from your data that would then be condition on these pre filters so they're rather helpful when you are dealing with either a large corpus of data or data that is actually changing in terms of how it's been encoding or you want to exclude certain things so that's certainly helpful um but again this is really these help the filters not that she don't they're not sort of impacting the dashboard per se this sort of an indirect there are pre filter that then filters the dashboard right so yeah after fumbling these are the only two manufacturers that have a guitar that sells for more than $3,000 so it just limits your options dynamically that way then I kind of wanted to fumble around with the uh uh well sorting I think is fairly self explanatory I thought because you could uh I know there's a way that you can sort in this case manufacturers alphabetically but this is actually sorting biometric so you can uh I don't really have a metric per se that I'd want to sort by here um um but I guess these are fenders the biggest seller so it's got the most rows in this table and it's now sorted by that um if in case that's useful let's see does anybody else have any of these uh little control panel and yeah just to add to that as well like you know you can define um if multiple values are supported so if you if you choose like filter has default value if you just select that right now Evan um you can see you can choose one value right it's a drop down like see in there or Gibson but you can't choose multiple but if you choose the if you check cancel your multiple values right that changes to a pull form and now you can actually type in Gibson enter etc etc if it default values like that um and again that dynamic search for all full-of-values is actually doing a um a query when you actually when you filter on this it actually is running query in the background so um rather than sort of fetching the top 1000 values if you have a large corpus of data um you can do this where it actually will when you start typing so you start sub you start timing if for example it would actually or G or whatever it is it would start to do a query in the backing into actually find all the manufacturers with which match that G's substring so yeah it's up to you with all scale issues that people run into scale issues yeah and that's actually another control that has come up that people might want to contribute at some point is right now when you type something like a type gib and I get Gibson it's doing a like in the query but people kind of want to make that a little uh agree dear in the way it searches and that would be an interesting control to add and kind of how you can figure out the like uh with the little percentive signs whatever those are right yeah there's a couple questions is reject supported it's not like you can't do you can't do slash w or something like that but it's just doing a filtering like I think I believe it is using like actually so it's it's filtering adding a filter on the column we manufacture like you know percent G percent in that case yeah exactly and we could make that a little more flexible in terms of how it searches but it comes at a cost of performance so there's a bit of a uh a balancing act there but if it's possible probably to add some controls in terms of how it searches the possible values uh and you can maybe configure that knowing that there are performance tradeoffs let's see running low on time uh let's give it three more minutes of questions and then we'll hop off of here um can you explain the group by filter looks like it's broken honestly I don't use that one often uh but um I mean is that even an option with that I'm thinking about a request there's been a feature request for a group by filter that will essentially let you change the dimension you're looking at in a dashboard so um you could have all your charts kind of uh you know use a group by a manufacturer and then switch them all to be grouped by model but that doesn't actually exist so I was wondering if there was something here but I don't see a group by filter so I'm not quite sure what you're referring to um there are a group by controls on the individual charts that do exactly that but it's not something you can switch from the filter pane and at the dashboard there let's see is it possible to define the aggregate metric that's used for the time grain filter yeah I showed you the time column but I didn't mess around with time grain um which has a few default options uh somebody's using daily time grain and it's filtered by subgroups and then sub to make uh to create the base chart I wanted the average across weeks and months when applying different time range time grain filters but I can't seem to do this um that sounds a little deeper than I thought when I started reading it maybe we could talk on slack and kind of iron out exactly the use case and kind of repost steps we're talking about but yes there is a time grain filter and what I thought we were going to get into is how to configure different time grains which um if you're uh running open source superset there is some configuration for creating custom time grains um but this sounds like a bit of a permutation across different time grains happening and I'm not sure I'm going to be able to answer that on the fly let's see can I embed a chart uh with a predefined set of frozen filter values like with the permanent link shared not really um you can embed individual charts but that's actually from the chart area so you can uh actually it's not turned on I'm using preset here it's not turned on here um so on open source superset you can but it's basically it actually uh exposes not just the chart but also the underlying data so it's a bit of a weird thing to turn on um for some use cases which is why we don't have a turned on here but um no you can't use dashboard filters to control an individual chart that you would be be embedding if you want to use dashboard filters dashboard embedding is the the future for you um um and then or even do they not piss us across the URL and the full data is not passed through when you like oh they do yeah in fact yeah i meant to touch on that's what this little yellow indicator is right here is that when you add a filter in the dashboard context and then jump in through the edit button like i just did then it does apply it here ad hoc so um as an ad hoc filter so so now i'm not sure i don't have the embed chart thing turned on for the reasons i mentioned but um i'm not sure if that would be included in the embed code i think not but somebody can maybe verify that one other nifty little thing that i did want to show is how i created that dashboard um not the gpt part i'm sure you all know how to use gpt at this point but a little preset feature um that doesn't exist on superset is this upload csv to database bit and um that is something that preset added that allows it's pretty much the first thing you do when you connect to superset right is you're like okay i have a file and i want to see it just to kick the tires on this thing so this lets you upload a csv file to s3 and to end encrypted very secure and then you can use sqlite syntax on it essentially so you don't actually need a specific database to be configured to allow csv uploads and all this stuff you have to do on open source superset that you can just do it straight through the ui as your first action um let's see do you see anything else good and answerable john i'm gonna sing a lot of hard questions that we want to have time for you yeah there's i mean we've tried to answer a few there's if we need something a little longer to answer um there's a lot of documentation well there's documentation online i think also there's a lot of videos online as well that people at gpt preset and others have done as well so um definitely want to google some of those things i know there's a question about road level security at the end um okay i'm not to sit in um that question but you know there are these you can't have conditional filters or filters that are dependent on those values as well so um well i think the uh yeah the the question there is is there a webinar on road level security and i think that's actually a worthwhile pursuit maybe we can follow up and do one of those in a while and kind of go into some of those um use cases and intricacies there's something about timeouts um that's something we're going to have to follow up on slack about because there's a lot of kind of infer layer stuff that may or may not be affecting things all right well we've got only a few seconds left in the hour i think we're going to call it here again if you want to get more of these questions answered um this here is the uh didn't copy it didn't copy that link again and paste it to you so you can join us on slack and again uh the chat room uh the the the channel to join us in is hashtag meetup dashboard filters i believe so um yeah or you can just DM me and i'll try to answer things or redirect you as best as i can all right well thanks folks thanks for joining us today appreciate all the questions hope this helped and uh if you have any additional um future webinar requests by all means send them my way and we'll try to keep getting the information you seek um thank you very much and have a great day