 Welcome to Preset, a fully managed and feature rich version of the leading open source BI project Superset. Login into Preset, the first thing we see is all the workspaces we have access to. Workspaces are auto-scaled, secure instances of the latest version of Superset, allowing you to deploy different instances for development workflows or to isolate different teams, while Presets, API, and CLI make it easy to version control and sync assets across different workspaces. Diving into a workspace, we land on the home screen where I can quickly find relevant dashboards, charts, and queries being created. I can search, sort, and filter to quickly find exactly what I may be looking for, and certification marks help guide me to what others have designated as sources of truth. Once connected to one of the many supported data sources, the primary way that will interact with data in Preset is using the concept of a data set. A physical data set is a table in your underlying data source, which you can add some analytics to, while a virtual data set gives you the same drag and drop functionality to the results of any query you can run against your data source. Data sets allow you to drag and drop metrics and columns to create new visualizations, and on the top, you can view some of the most common visualization types, while also seeing a wide variety of supported visualizations for more complex breakdowns of data, or working with geospatial attributes. New metrics and dimensions and filters can be made on the fly, advanced analytics allow you to compare time periods, compute metrics across time frames, or even add additional annotation layers, and the customized tab is where you have more configuration options such as colors, labels, number formats, and many more specific to that chart type. Once a chart is ready for use, you can easily save it or add a tiny existing or new dashboard. Dashboards allow you to collect many insights and interact with them using friendly filters, as well as cross filters or drill downs. Owners of the dashboard can easily edit them to add new charts, configure layouts, or add supporting text, links, and other resources to make the dashboard more relatable. Users can set up reports to be delivered on a regular cadence, share the dashboard with others, download the data, or even enable their dashboards to be embedded into other applications. More technical users can always view the underlying query powering the insights, and even take it into SQL ad, where I can directly query the underlying database, and create new charts and virtual data sets. To customize your workspace further, admin users can enforce what data users have access to with data access roles and role-level security, add CSS templates to customize the look and feel, or configure alerts and reports that can be sent to additional parties via email and Slack. There is so much more to preset, and we are constantly adding new features for our customers and this open source community. So reach out to learn more about how you can democratize data in your organization, and have control of your future with the best open source back solution.